# dieharder-arm-asuswrt

### HOWTO: Compile Dieharder for AsusWRT firmware
```
cd
git clone https://github.com/blackfuel/dieharder-arm-asuswrt.git
cd dieharder-arm-asuswrt
./dieharder.sh
```


http://www.phy.duke.edu/~rgb/General/dieharder.php

<hr>
 
<center><h3>Abstract</h3></center>
<p>
<center><H1>Dieharder: A Random Number Test Suite</H1></center>

<center><H3>Robert G. Brown (rgb)</H3></center>
<center><H3>Dirk Eddelbuettel</H3></center>
<center><H3>David Bauer</H3></center>

<p>Dieharder is a <i>random number generator (rng) testing suite</i>.
It is intended to test <i>generators</i>, not <i>files of possibly
random numbers</i> as the latter is a fallacious view of what it means
to be random.  Is the number 7 random?  If it is generated by a random
process, it might be.  If it is made up to serve the purpose of some
argument (like this one) it is not.  Perfect random number generators
produce "unlikely" sequences of random numbers -- at exactly the right
average rate.  Testing a rng is therefore quite subtle.</p>

<p>dieharder is a tool designed to permit one to push a weak generator
to unambiguous failure (at the e.g. 0.0001% level), not leave one in the
"limbo" of 1% or 5% maybe-failure.  It also contains many tests and is
extensible so that eventually it will contain many more tests than it
already does.</p>

<p>If you are using dieharder for testing rngs either in one of its
prebuilt versions (rpm or apt) or built from source (which gives you the
ability to e.g. add more tests or integrate your rng directly with
dieharder for ease of use) you may want to join either or both of the
<a
href="https://lists.phy.duke.edu/mailman/listinfo/dieharder-announce">dieharder-announce</a>
or the
<a
href="https://lists.phy.duke.edu/mailman/listinfo/dieharder-devel">dieharder-devel</a>
mailing lists here.  The former should be very low traffic -- basically
announcing when a snapshot makes it through development to where I'm
proud of it.  The latter will be a bit more active, and is a good place
to post bug reports, patches, suggestions, fixes, complaints and
generally participate in the development process.</p>

<h2>About Dieharder</h2>

<p>At the suggestion of Linas Vepstas on the Gnu Scientific Library
(GSL) list this GPL'd suite of random number tests will be named
"Dieharder".  Using a movie sequel pun for the name is a double tribute
to George Marsaglia, whose <a
href="http://stat.fsu.edu/~geo/diehard.html">"Diehard battery of
tests"</a> of random number generators has enjoyed years of enduring
usefulness as a test suite.</p>

<p>The dieharder suite is more than just the diehard tests cleaned up
and given a pretty GPL'd source face in native C.  Tests from the <a
href="http://csrc.nist.gov/rng/">Statistical Test Suite (STS)</a>
developed by the National Institute for Standards and Technology (NIST)
are being incorporated, as are new tests developed by rgb.  Where
possible or appropriate, <i>all</i> tests that can be parameterized
("cranked up") to where failure, at least, is unambiguous are so
parameterized and controllable from the command line.</p>  

<p>A further design goal is to provide some indication of <i>why</i> a
generator fails a test, where such information can be extracted during
the test process and placed in usable form.  For example, the
bit-distribution tests should (eventually) be able to display the actual
histogram for the different bit ntuplets.</p>

<p>Dieharder is by design extensible.  It is intended to be the "Swiss
army knife of random number test suites", or if you prefer, "the last
suite you'll ever ware" for testing random numbers.</p>

<hr>

